# Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2)
Learning objectives

In this module, you will learn how to:

- Describe the benefits of Amazon EC2 at a basic level.
- Identify the different Amazon EC2 instance types.
- Differentiate between the various billing options for Amazon EC2.
- Summarize the benefits of Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling.
- Summarize the benefits of Elastic Load Balancing.
- Give an example of the uses for Elastic Load Balancing.
- Summarize the differences between Amazon Simple Notification Service (Amazon SNS) and Amazon Simple Queue Service (Amazon SQS).
- Summarize additional AWS compute options.


### Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) provides *secure, resizable compute capacity* in the cloud as Amazon EC2 instances. 

## [Amazon EC2 instance types](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/)

1. **General purpose** --- instances provide a balance of compute, memory, and networking resources. You can use them for a variety of workloads, such as:

- application servers
- gaming servers
- backend servers for enterprise applications
- small and medium databases

2. **Compute optimized**-- instances are ideal for compute-bound applications that benefit from high-performance processors. Like general purpose instances, you can use compute optimized instances for workloads such as web, application, and gaming servers.

- Compute optimized applications are ideal for high-performance web servers, compute-intensive applications servers, and dedicated gaming servers. 

- You can also use compute optimized instances for batch processing workloads that require processing many transactions in a single group.

3. **Memory optimized instances** -- are designed to deliver fast performance for workloads that process large datasets in memory. In computing, memory is a temporary storage area. It holds all the data and instructions that a central processing unit (CPU) needs to be able to complete actions. Before a computer program or application is able to run, it is loaded from storage into memory. This preloading process gives the CPU direct access to the computer program.

- Suppose that you have a workload that requires large amounts of data to be preloaded before running an application. This scenario might be a **high-performance database** or a workload that involves performing **real-time processing** of a large amount of unstructured data. In these types of use cases, consider using a memory optimized instance. Memory optimized instances enable you to run workloads with **high memory needs and receive great performance**.

4. **Accelerated computing instances** --use hardware accelerators, or coprocessors, to perform some functions more efficiently than is possible in software running on CPUs. 
- Examples of these functions include floating-point number calculations, graphics processing, and data pattern matching.

- In computing, a hardware accelerator is a component that can expedite data processing. Accelerated computing instances are ideal for workloads such as **graphics applications, game streaming, and application streaming**.



5. **Storage optimized instances** -- are designed for workloads that require high, sequential read and write access to large datasets on local storage. Examples of workloads suitable for storage optimized instances include distributed file systems, data warehousing applications, and high-frequency online transaction processing (OLTP) systems.

- **In computing, the term input/output operations per second (IOPS) is a metric that measures the performance of a storage device**

- You can think of input operations as data put into a system, such as records entered into a database. An output operation is data generated by a server. An example of output might be the analytics performed on the records in a database. If you have an application that has a high IOPS requirement, a storage optimized instance can provide better performance over other instance types not optimized for this kind of use case.


6. **High performance computing (HPC)** -- instances are purpose built to offer the best price performance for running HPC workloads at scale on AWS. **HPC instances are ideal for applications that benefit from high-performance processors such as large, complex simulations and deep learning workloads**.


## Instance Features
#### Amazon EC2 instances provide a number of additional features to help you deploy, manage, and scale your applications.

### 1. Burstable Performance Instances
### 2. Multiple Storage Options
- Amazon EC2 allows you to choose between multiple storage options based on your requirements. Amazon EBS is a durable, block-level storage volume that you can attach to a single, running Amazon EC2 instance.
- **Amazon EBS** provides three volume types to best meet the needs of your workloads: General Purpose (SSD), Provisioned IOPS (SSD), and Magnetic. 

- **General Purpose (SSD)** volumes are suitable for a broad range of workloads, including small to medium sized databases, development and test environments, and boot volumes. 
- **Provisioned IOPS (SSD)** volumes offer storage with consistent and low-latency performance, and are designed for I/O intensive applications such as large relational or NoSQL databases. 

- **Magnetic volumes** provide the lowest cost per gigabyte of all EBS volume types. Magnetic volumes are ideal for workloads where data is accessed infrequently, and applications where the lowest storage cost is important.

- Many Amazon EC2 instances can also include storage from devices that are located inside the host computer, referred to as instance storage. **Instance storage** provides temporary block-level storage for Amazon EC2 instances. The data on instance storage persists only during the life of the associated Amazon EC2 instance.


## Amazon EC2 pricing
- **On-Demand** Instances are ideal for short-term, irregular workloads that cannot be interrupted. No upfront costs or minimum contracts apply. The instances run continuously until you stop them, and you pay for only the compute time you use.

- Sample use cases for On-Demand Instances include developing and testing applications and running applications that have unpredictable usage patterns. On-Demand Instances are not recommended for workloads that last a year or longer because these workloads can experience greater cost savings using Reserved Instances.
## 




## 

## 




## 

## 




## 

## 




## 

## 




## 

## 




## 

## 




## 

## 




## 

## 




## 

## 




## 

## 




## 

## 




## 

## 




## 

## 




## 